---
title: "Evolution of Thought Forms"
date: 2018-12-18T18:08:30-07:00
weight: 4
pre: "<b>I.a. </b>"
LastModifierDisplayName: "Kreion"
LastModifierEmail: "<kreion@loveway.one>"
draft: "true"
---



## Culture Can Be Predatory
All living things evolve. Given time, energy, and pressure, they naturally arrange themselves into more stable, more organized states. It took billions of years for complex molecules to form, and billions more for the first cells to arrive. But once life began, evolution occurred in leaps and bounds. Each new method of evolution is *much* faster than those it's built upon. The mind, the greatest evolutionary tool yet, is not the final method the universe can employ. Even faster than our minds change are our ideas. Given the right circumstances, ideas take on a life of their own, infecting, reproducing, evolving, and creating. [Memetics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memetics) is the study of how ideas interact within the ecosystem of culture. The individual mind has its own ecosystem of ideas, and by understanding it, we can self-direct our evolution to better adapt to our increasingly challenging world.

Thought-forms are collections of ideas and behaviors that mutually reinforce each other. Culture is a collection of thought-forms that unify people by providing common ground and common purpose. Ideas, thought-forms, and culture are like viruses in that they have no intrinsic life beyond what they are given by the minds that host them. They are so similar to viruses that there exist "[retrovirus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retrovirus)" thought-forms that rewrite existing behaviors into new forms. Most cultural adaptations are useful, like fitness or scholarship, but some are harmful. For example, body image issues survive not on the merits of their usefulness, but because those who have them inflict their issues on others, making an imprint through their traumatizing words and actions. This imprint subverts the natural, healthy "I want to be attractive" motivation into a dysfunction by changing the priority and definition of attractiveness. It spreads to others by creating insecurity that causes people to criticize and continue the cycle. It's supported by profiteers who take advantage of insecurity to sell goods and services. As another example, alcoholism is spread by subverting natural desires, group bonding and relaxation, into a distorted culture of binge drinking. It's spread through peer pressure and supported by profiteers. Peer pressure and profiteering are common to most maladaptations, but people are really only susceptible to them when their "mental immune response" is weakened.

## Self-Directed Evolution
Self-esteem, passion, and critical thinking protect us from maladaptive thought-forms by giving us the security and objectivity we need to take an active role in evolving our mental systems. Rather than buying into the stories other people tell, we create our own systems of belief. By doing so we catalyze mental growth and bring more stimulation into our lives. In order to foster these traits we must develop the strength of our mental ecosystems.

Growth is a deep spiritual need that can only be fulfilled from within, by challenging ourselves to stretch and become stronger. When we practice critical thinking we clarify our passions and grow confident in our beliefs, which helps us resist negative peer pressure and those who would profit off our desires. To be sure of oneself is not a constant state but a delicate balance between maintaining one's current mental ecosystem and opening up to newcoming ideas. Those who seem constantly self-assured are usually only deceiving themselves or else putting on a false face to compensate for deep insecurity. Those who never know their own wants and desires are likely shying away from challenging situations and thus never know their core motivations. It is only by having to make hard decisions that we come to know what is truly important in our lives. It is only by knowing what is truly important that we can begin to direct our own evolution.

## The Spiritual Nature of Evolution
For the sake of clarity we'll define spirituality as humankind's engagement with the ongoing mystery of life. No matter how much we discover, there's always more to see, and this simple fact means that we'll never know all the answers and we'll never have a complete model of the universe. This is a good thing, because it's the quest for knowledge that drives us to become more than we are. The incompleteness we vaguely sense within our lives is what pushes us to explore and create. This incompleteness is mollified by the source of inner peace, which allows us to relax and enjoy any moment completely. You can think of the drive to become more as [eros](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eros_(concept)#In_philosophy_and_psychology), regulated by [dopamine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dopamine#Nervous_system), while the source of inner peace can be thought of as [agape](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agape) regulated by [serotonin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serotonin). Balancing these two positive or constructive forces is [thanatos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_drive), the drive to self-destruct. Death is as much a part of evolution as growth, but without self-awareness it can be expressed negatively through harmful and maladaptive behaviors. Many  pathogenic thought-forms such as addiction or recklessness have subverted the normal drive to self-destruct by providing a more sensory gratification. By practicing inner peace and love for all things, we can channel the urge to destroy into useful means such as radical transformation and self-directed evolution.

### Embrace the Spiritual Nature of Mind to Resist Cultural Predation
Most of our insecurity is driven by fear. In a social context, negative thought-forms engage in cultural predation by taking advantage of fear. They 